50 years have passed since a march that does not lose its course that does not stop
of a mission of a commitment that today is strengthened
with education of our childhood and youth
five decades of delivery and value for all Mexicans
we aspire for a better future for mexico
In 1959 that idea was born that until today when the
foundations of knowledge in Mexican children
and free textbooks
that saw the light through the plan of the 11 years driven by the then
president adolfo l칩pez mateos and headed by the secretary of
public education jaime torres bodet
since then and still to this day
throughout the six years of President Felipe Calder칩n
the free textbook is a fundamental instrument to reduce
the economic inequality gap
that surrounded a good part of the students of basic education
impulse to the teaching-learning process
we are a big team behind a great cause
different actors of the national commission of free textbooks
of the secretary of public education
of state governments and the private sector
produce and distribute millions of free textbooks every cycle
school to all corners of mexico
through our teachers and our teachers
the knowledge reaches your children
Mexicans with our effort we endorse the hope of building a
prosperous future for all through education
only in 2009 more than 180 million textbooks were delivered
free that if we place one on another represent 312 times the height of the
Pico de Orizaba
The highest volcano in Mexico
That's how big the effort of all Mexicans is
for achieving equality in access to educational services for our
girls our children and youth
In the national commission of free textbooks we have a mission in
to break him as a decentralized public body of the Mexican government
we are responsible for producing iti distribute free textbooks
and educational materials that facilitate equitable access to girls.
children and young Mexicans still basic education the note
free and mandatory
as established by our constitution and society demands
the conaliteg produces and distributes books for preschool children and young people
secondary school and telesecundaria additionally
the commission is essential for the support of the Mexican government to
minorities through the production of books in braille system and macro-type
for the visually impaired as well as special books for the communities
indigenous people in 42 different languages
from the production plant of
the commission proposed an important part of the textbooks
free from there the books are sent to the north of the country in
tequexquin치huac state of mexico is the main warehouse
With a storage capacity of up to one hundred million books there,
the distribution to the center and south of the country
our pact with each new Mexican
transcends the barriers of education in pursuit of a dignified life in all
senses
we believe in a current and quality education
in a culture of recycling
100% of free textbooks are produced with recycled paper and
We also keep abreast of information technology and
communication
so that we all advance in the different educational challenges and
technological
that are presented to us on the horizon
conaliteg is synonymous with shared effort
of the effort of Mexicans to achieve equality through the
education of our childhood and youth
we are advancing in a race against illiteracy that is about to reach
5 billion free textbooks produced we will achieve
each one of us who make up this country
we contribute to our own future
since the textbook is an educational asset that we all pay with our
taxes as the best investment for current generations and those that
They are for
in each Mexican there is the opportunity to know more
to improve day by day and to raise the name of a country that shelters it
of a free textbook that goes with it
and a national commission of free textbooks that backs it
the free textbook you use it stopped
louz치n your children
and with the effort of all
will be used by the new generations
in free textbooks we use it all
because we are all Mexicans
live better federal government